- ## How it Came
  collapsed:: true
	- A Course in Miracles began with the sudden decision of two people to join in a common goal. Their names were [[Helen Schucman]] and [[William Thetford]], Professors of Medical Psychology at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City. It does not matter who they were, except that the story shows that with God all things are possible. They were anything but spiritual. Their relationship with each other was difficult and often strained, and they were concerned with personal and professional acceptance and status. In general, they had considerable investment in the values of the world. Their lives were hardly in accord with anything that the Course advocates. Helen, the one who received the material, describes herself:
	- > Psychologist, educator, conservative in theory and atheistic in belief, I was working in a prestigious and highly academic setting. And then something happened that triggered a chain of events I could never have predicted. The head of my department unexpectedly announced that he was tired of the angry and aggressive feelings our attitudes reflected, and concluded that "[[there must be another way]]." As if on cue, I agreed to help him find it. Apparently this Course is the other way.
	- Although their intention was serious, they had great difficulty in starting out on their joint venture. But they had given the [[Holy Spirit]] the "[[little willingness]]" that, as the Course itself was to emphasise again and again, is sufficient to enable Him to use any situation for His purposes and provide it with His power.
	- To continue Helen's first-person account:
	  > Three starting months preceded the actual writing, during which time Bill suggested that I write down the highly symbolic [[dreams]] and descriptions of the strange images that were coming to me. Although I had grown more accustomed to the unexpected by that time, I was still very surprised when I wrote, "This is a course in [[miracles]]." That was my introduction to the Voice. It made no sound, but seemed to be giving me a kind of rapid, inner dictation which I took down in a shorthand notebook. the writing was never automatic. It could be interrupted at any time and later picked up again. It made me very uncomfortable, but it never seriously occurred to me to stop. It seemed to be a special assignment I had somehow, somewhere agreed to complete. It represented a truly collaborative venture between Bill and myself, and much of it significant, I am sure, lies in that. I would take down what the Voice "said" and read it to him the next day, and he typed it from my dictation. I expect he had his special assignment, too. Without his encouragement and support I would never have been able to fulfil mine. The whole process took about seven years. The Text came first, then the Workbook for Students, and finally the Manual for Teachers. Only a few minor changes have been made. Chapter titles and subheadings have been inserted in the text, and some of the more personal references that occurred at the beginning have been omitted. Otherwise, the materials is substantially unchanged.
	- The names of the collaborators in the recording of the Course do not appear on the cover because the Course can and should stand on its own. It is not intended to become the basis for another cult. Its only purpose is to provide a way in. which some people will be able to find their own [[Internal Teacher]] .
- ## What It Is
	- As its title implies, the Course is arranged throughout as a [[teaching]] device. It consists of three books: a 669-page Text, a 488-page Workbook for Students, and a 92-page Manual for Teachers. The order in which students choose to use the books, and the ways in which they study them, depend on their particular needs and preferences.
	- The [[curriculum]] the Course proposes is carefully conceived and is explained, step by step, at both the theoretical and practical level. It emphasises application rather than theory, and experience rather than theology. It specifically states that "a universal theology is impossible, but a universal experience is not only possible but necessary" ([Manual, p.77](((61c1a6d6-ee2e-436c-bc75-594561a641d2)))). Although Christian in statement, the Course deals with universal spiritual themes. It emphasises that it is but one version of the universal curriculum. There are many others, this one differing from them only in form. They all lead to God in the end.
	- The text is largely theoretical, and sets forth the concepts on which the Course's thought system is based. Its ideas contain the foundation for the Workbook's lessons. Without the practical application the Workbook provides, the text would remain largely a series of abstractions which would hardly suffice to bring about the thought reversal at which the Course Aims.
	- The Workbook includes 365 lessons, one for each day of the year. It is not necessary, however, to do the lessons at that tempo, and one might want to remain with a particularly appealing lesson for more than one day. The instructions urge only that not more than one lesson a day should be attempted. The practical nature of the Workbook is underscored by the introduction to its lessons, which emphasises experience through application rather than a prior commitment to a spiritual goal:
	- {{embed ((61c55915-45ab-4963-b969-9c8223b33ea8))}}
	- {{embed ((61c55946-79d5-49d3-a7d7-c506f0b1cf16))}}
- Finally, the [[Manual for Teachers]], which is written in question and answer form, provides answers to some of the more likely questions a student might ask. It also includes a clarification of a number of the terms the Course uses, explaining them within the [[theoretical framework]] of the Text.
- [[The Course]] makes no claim to finality, nor are the [[workbook]] lessons intended to bring the student's learning to completion. At the end, the reader is left in the hands of his or her own [[Internal Teacher]] , Who will direct all subsequent learing as He sees fit. While [[The Course]] is comprehensive in scope, truth canot be limited to any finite form, as is clearly recognized in the statement at the end of the [[workbook]] :
- {{embed ((61c5774a-43bc-4bdd-9f17-b6645ff7aa51))}}
- {{embed ((fc813166-a6c2-4a9b-9713-0de060658219))}}
-
- ^^Next Chapter:^^ [[Chapter 1 - The Meaning of Miracles]]
-
-